[MUSIC]
Hello, I am so happy that you're
interested in this course and
that you have been trying to
do the first assignment, and
that you have some questions about this
assignment that I am now going to answer.
In the assignment we said, consider
the linear programming relaxation for
the vertex cover problem, and
let us assume that we have a solution
such that every coordinate is
either zero or one half, or one.
And you had some questions.
You asked is this a special property,
or is it always true?
I said, yes, it's always true.
Then you said, but then,
is there an algorithm for
computing such a solution,
or is it hard to calculate?
And I said yes, there is an algorithm.
And now, given that you seem to
be interested in this question,
I thought it would be worth
giving you a little proof.
So, that is what this video is about.
The theorem is: there exists
an optimal solution of
the LP relaxation forward x cover,
such that every coordinate x
sub u is either 0 or .5 or
1, and there is a polynomial-time
algorithm to construct it.
Let's do this algorithm.
The algorithm, first solves the LP.
That gives it an optimal solution, xu*,
that satisfies all the constraints and
such that the weight
of the resulting fractional
vertex cover is minimized.
But, possibly, these variables,
they're between zero and
one, but possibly, they're not all equal
to zero, or to one-half, or to one.
So what do we do?
We gradually modify
the solution to have more and
more coordinates equal to zero or
to one-half or to one.
First, all the variables that
already have value in 0, .5, and
1, or 1, we freeze them.
We will not change them anymore.
They already have the value we want.
Second, consider the remaining variables.
There are two possibilities.
Large.
Small.
Large between .5 and 1, strictly.
Small, between 0 and .5, strictly.
Every variable is either frozen or
large or small.
Now, there's an interesting property due
to the constraints of the LP relaxation.
If u is small, and
if we have an edge from u to v,
then we only have two possibilities for v.
Either v is large,
as in here u has value 0.4 x* u is 0.4.
V has value 0.7,
the sum is greater than or equal to 1.
Or the value for v is 1, 0.4 plus 1.
But what we cannot have is two small
vertices adjacent to one another.
If u is 0.4 strictly less than 0.5.
If v is strictly less than 0.5, then there
sum would be strictly less than 1 and
that would be not feasible.
That is not possible.
So, if a vertex is small,
then it's neighbors cannot be small.
Now what do we do.
We try two things.
The first thing we try,
is to do a small local modification.
We take a very small epsilon,
very small positive epsilon.
We take every small value, x to star.
And try to increment it by epsilon.
Every large value, and
try to decrement it by epsilon.
What does that give us?
What this means is that, if we have an
edge, we have a small adjacent to a large,
the small increased a little bit going
say from .4 to .41, if epsilon is .01.
The large decreased a little bit by the
same amount and the sum does not change.
So it was greater than or equal to 1
before, it's still greater than or
equal to 1 afterwards.
Even if the sum was exactly 1 before,
it's still exactly one afterwards.
So it still satisfies the constraint.
Or if the two vertices were both large,
then they both
decrease by epsilon 0.7 because 0.69,
0.6 because 0.59.
So there's some decreases, but
the sum, was strictly more than one.
If you have two numbers that
are both strictly more than 0.5,
their sum is strictly more than one.
So when you do a little
change of an epsilon.
Now the sum decreases by two epsilon, and
for epsilon small enough,
it's still greater than or equal to one.
So what this means is that for
epsilon small enough,
this y vector is still feasible,
it's still a feasible vertex cover.
That's the first thing we tried.
Two, we tried to do the opposite.
The small vertices will
decrease by epsilon.
The large vertices will
increase by epsilon.
Again, if we have a small adjacent
to a large, the sum doesn't change.
Plus epsilon, minus epsilon, that's 0.
If we have a small adjacent to 1,
well the small decreases.
But then the value was one plus something,
so it was strictly more than one and
so it's still strictly more than one
afterwards, for epsilon small enough.
And if both were large, then it increases,
so it satisfies the constraints
even more than before.
So what this means is that, for
epsilon small enough,
this factor z is still feasible.
So we have two new solutions.
One where all the small items
increase by epsilon, and
the large items decrease by epsilon.
And one where we do the opposite,
the small decrease, the large increase.
They're both feasible.
Y is feasible but x* is the optimal value.
So we know the value of y is less
than the value, less than or
equal to the value of x*.
Same thing for z.
The value of z, because it's feasible,
is less than or equal to the value of x*.
But, y and z are so close,
they're so close to one another.
If you look at the average of y and z, on
average we get x*, plus epsilon
minus epsilon the average is zero.
Minus epsilon plus epsilon
the average is a change in zero.
In other words The value of y
plus the value of z over 2,
the average between the two
is exactly value of x*.
And they're both less than or
equal to x*, so they have to be equal.
If we have two values, both less than or
equal to the value of x*, and on average,
they are equal to the value of x*.
Then they all have to be equal.
Y and z are feasible.
Their value is the same as the value of
x*, so they're also optimal solutions.
They're also optimal solutions.
So what do we do?
We take y.
We take z.
We think of epsilon as being small.
Small enough.
What does that mean, small enough?
What happens if we try to
start from a very small,
an infinitesimal epsilon,
and we increase it?
Increase it, increase it,
increase it, until something happens.
What can happen?
What may happen is that this small x*,
it was strictly between zero and
0.5, we keep increasing it,
eventually it might reach 0.5 or
this large value.
We decreased it, decreased it.
It was between 0.5 and 1.
Eventually, it may reach 0.5.
Or this small value here we decreased it,
decreased it,
decreased it eventually we may reach zero.
Or this large value increased it,
increased it, eventually we may reach one.
So as epsilon increases,
one of these events is going to happen.
Whichever one happens first,
that's when we stop.
We stop, we look at the variable
that just reached 0, or 0.5, or 1.
We freeze it.
Now we have one more variable,
with value 0.501.
And we have this optimal solution,
either y or z, depending on which
of those events happens,
that has all these frozen variables.
And we can repeat the construction.
In each iteration one more
variable will be frozen.
When does this end?
It ends when every variable is frozen.
At this point,
every variable has value 0.5 or 1,
and we still, we worked only in
the space of optimal solutions.
And so, what we have done here is we have
proved that there's an optimal solution
of the vertex cover LP relaxation,
whose coordinates are all in 0,
one-half, and 1, and we gave an algorithm
to find it in polynomial time.